Social interaction is central to children’s language learning, but the  effects of different forms of caregiver feedback are difficult to isolate in naturalistic data.
We use child-like language models as controlled learners to test which forms of feedback support grammatical development. Small GPT-2-style models are pretrained on child-directed language from CHILDES, then fine-tuned with reinforcement learning using reward models trained to capture four feedback types: communicative feedback, structural alignment, semantic contingency, and affective feedback. Reward fine-tuning yields limited gains on minimal-pair evaluations, but clearer effects in free generation. Structural alignment produces the strongest improvements in grammaticality, providing a novel, plausible mechanistic account of how this feedback can support grammar learning. Communicative feedback yields more moderate gains. In contrast, semantic contingency and affective feedback do not improve grammaticality, although further analyses suggest that they may support other aspects of language learning beyond grammar. These results suggest that different forms of caregiver feedback make complementary contributions to language learning.





%Children learn language in social interaction, where caregiver responses provide multiple forms of contingent feedback. Recent computational work has suggested that clarification requests can support grammar learning by functioning as a form of negative evidence. In this paper, we extend that framework to ask a broader question: what aspects of language learning are shaped by different kinds of caregiver-like feedback? We compare reward signals based on clarification requests, backchanneling, and lexical, syntactic, and semantic alignment, and evaluate their effects on multiple dimensions of model behavior, including grammaticality, density, diversity, and lexical entropy (TODO : add/change what needs to be). We find that clarification requests are more strongly associated with alignment than with grammaticality, suggesting that their role may be better characterized in terms of communicative coordination than grammatical correction alone. We also find that other reward signals produce modest gains in grammaticality relative to the baseline model. More broadly, different feedback signals induce tradeoffs across evaluation dimensions, but without causing grammatical degradation. These findings support a multidimensional view of caregiver feedback and highlight the value of computational modeling for disentangling its possible functions in language development.%



Keywords: child-directed language; language acquisition; reinforcement learning
